Q1. Why does Angular have a compiler at all?
A.	The main job of compiler is that convert the templates you write int o the code that runs at runtime/
In angular we write our templates declaratively. 
you specify what youw ant to happen, the bindings to check, but not how it should happen. but browsers cannot understand declarative syntax.
so we translate sth that broswer can understand, it creates element and calls change detection if binding changes from its previous value.

so the angular's job is to take the declarative syntax and converts it to imperative code.

=============================================================================

Q2.	How does compiler do the transformation?
A.	Compiler can do this transformation in one or two different ways
JIT and AOT

JIT
Compiler ypur code with plain Typescript(tsc)
All decorators end up in budled javascript created by typescript compiler, on teh browser decorators execute and call compiler.
Decorators(@Component, etc) invoke the compiler and generate Ivy static fields
Truly just in time-compilation happens when the field is read


AOT
instead of using tsc we use ngc, it does same what tsc does, but also takes angular decorators and precompiles them to imperative code.
ngc does at build time what the decorators would have done at runtime
Avoid teh cost of runtime compilation

=============================================================================

Q3. Explain Architecture?
A.	Inorder to understand how compiler i ssetup its helpos to know how tsc work, because angular compiler is based in typescripts.
So the regular tsc has 3 different phases
1.	Program Creation
2.	Type checking
3.	Emit

and the angular compiler is based on top of that
1.	Program Creation
2.	Analysis
3.	Resolve
4.	Type checking
5.	Emit

Program creation is the process of typescript discovering all of the source files that needs to understand your program. and this begins with tsconfig.json file.
From that typescript learns the initial set of ts files that are part of your program and it looks at the import of those and discovers more files.


Analysis is the where full sets of files are being taken, and looking all the classes in them and try to understand eacg component,directive,modules,services in isolation
gathering information about the structure.


Resolve, look everything again and this time understand structure an dependencies,
we look at the component and we know what module it is in, and we do optimisations based on that.
and also surface errors regarding teh structure of application, like if we put a pipe in imports of ngModule we will show thats not whta you intended.

Type Checking, we ask tsc to tell us about any erros that might be there in our program,a nd we also report errors in angular templates.

Emit, ts code gets fed to the series of transformations and merges in downlevel js code thats ready to run in browser. the most expensive step.

============================================================================

Q4. What are d.ts files?
A.	for every ts file a corresponding js file will be created.
and the information for all the types will be in d.ts file.
Its carrying information of the types from one compilation to next.

============================================================================

Q5. What is partial evaluation?
A.	Angular compiler contains almost a complete typescript interpreter.
The Angular compiler will evaluate:
1.	Property chains(foo.bar.baz)
2.	Literals (objects,arrays)
3.	Constants/variables
4.	Binary/ternary/logic espressions
5.	String templates
6.	Function calls
7.	Imports/Exports

but, only within current compilation

The compiler will actually attempt to run the ts code written in decorators, and try to determine for a given expression what its value will be

=================================================

e.g.,
const COMPONENTS = [FooCmp, BarCmp];

```js
@NgModule({
	decalartions: [...COMPONENTS],
	exports: [...COMPONENTS]
})
export class SomeModule
```

==============================================

e.g.,
some.module.ts

```js
import {COMMON_MODULES} from './common'

@NgModule({
	decalartions: [FooCmp, BarCmp],
	exports: [FooCmp, BarCmp],
	imports: [...COMMON_MODULES]
})
export class SomeModule

------------
common.ts

export const COMMON_MODULES = [
	CommonModule,
	FormModule,
	RouterModule
]
````

=============================================

Now this gets really interesting!
Dynamic Expressions

app.module.ts

```js

import {CONFIG} from './config'

@NgModule({
	imports: [CONFIG.modules]
})
export class AppModule

````

---------------

config.ts

```js

export const CONFIG = {
	modules: [CommonModule, FormsModule],

	// not available statically
	viewportSize:{
		x: document.body.scrollWidth,
		y: document,body,scrollHeight
	}
}

````

The problem is that in build time there is no browser, so how will viewport size be calculated?

So what is the value of CONFIG at compile time?

so what we learn is, CONFIG is an object with two properties whose value are arrays, one of which is a refrence of modules, other is an object with two properties we cant understand.

then angular will produce an error that the 'styles' could not be resolved, and explain why

like

we are trying to use the viewport size in an inline stylesheet

```js
@Component({
	styles: [`
		:host{
			width: ${CONFIG.viewportSize.x}
		}
	`]
})

````

==================================================================

Q6. What is template type-checking?
A. 	This a complex feature in compiler.

e.g.,
```html
<account-view
	[account]="getAccount(user.id, 'primary') | async">
</account-view>
```

lets understand the problem first!

we have one component, we have one binding and a slightly complex expression with an async pipe.

1.	<account-view> chould be a component with an 'account' @Input
2.	getAccount() should take two arguments and should return an Observable/Promise, because we gonna pass it to the async pipe
3.	'user' should be an object with an 'id' property
4.	[account] should accept nulls, because async can return null before it gets actual values

-----------------
Approach
1.	Transform Angular template expressions into TS code
because tsc dosnt support checking html

2.	Set up a Typescript program and feed it these "type check blocks"
These block exist so we can feed it to the tsc and have the tsc give us back errors

so for the above template, type check blocks can be like this
```js
function typeCheckBlock(ctx: AppComponent){
	let cmp!: AccountViewCmp;
	let pipe!: ng.AsyncPipe;

	cmp.account = pipe.transform(
		ctx.getAccount(ctx.user.id, 'primary')
	);
	// if the above property dont exist, tsc is gonna yell at us
}

```


3.	Gather any errors and map them back to the original template
tsc will show us teh errors in teh context of the random code taht we generated
it would be much better to show you the error as coming from your actual template, so we use a clever trick

so what we actually feed to tsc is

```js
cmp.account /*273,356*/ = (pipe.transform(
		ctx.getAccount(
			(ctx.user /*311,315*/).id /*311,318*/,
		 	'primary' /*320,329*/)
		 /*300,331*/)
	/*300,338*/) /*289,339*/;

```

--------------------

*ngFor
support for usage of *ngFor


```html
<div *ngFor="let user of users">
	<account-view
		[account]="getAccount(user.id, 'primary') | async">
	</account-view>
</div>

````

How do we go about type-checking now?

NgFor is generic:

```js
@Directive({
	selector: `[ngForOf]`
})
export class NgFor<T>{
	@Input() ngForOf: T[];
}

```

it has an input that is an array of T's and a generic type for each row

now lets write typeCheckBlock

```js
function typeCheckBlock(ctx, AppComponent){
	let ngFor!: NgFor<?>;
	let user!: ?;
}

````

Q.	How do we determine the type of the directive instance NgFor<?>?
A.	we generate a special function called "Type constructor"
	it allows us to use type imprints, to figure out , for a given set of inputs to ngfor directive like for context users, what is the generic type going to be!
	so genric type will be coming as ngFor of user

```js
	function NgFor_Type<T>(ngForOf: T[]): NgFor<T>{...}

	function typeCheckBlock(ctx, AppComponent){
		let ngFor!: NgFor_Type<ctx.users>;
	}
````

Q.	What type is 'user'?
A.	Now how do we figure out the type of loop variable?
Very hard, said the instructor!
the way the user loop variable gets set, is that you call, ViewContainerRef.createEmbeddedViw and you pass in this context object, and the context object has a $implicit property that has value for each row

```html
<account-view ngFor [ngForof]="users" let-user="$implicit">
````

```js

ecport interface NgForContext<T>{
	$implicit: T;
}

@Directive(...)
export class NgFor<T>{
	constructor(
		private template: TemplateRef,
		private vcr: ViewContainerRef
	){}

	renderRow(value: T){
		this.vcr.createEmbeddedViw(
			this.template,
			{$implicit: value}
		)
	}
}

````

so, what is the type of that variable?
so to make that work, is if the ngFor directive will just tell teh type-checker what type its going to create for each row.
so we intriduced a static function, that is shipped with angular common
it allows the tsc to ask the ngFor directuve, what type of row its going to create?

and the type of each row, is going to be NgForContext, so if its NgFor of User then each row is gonna be a user

```html
<account-view ngFor [ngForof]="users" let-user="$implicit">
````

```js
export interface NgForContext<T>{
	$implicit: T;
}

@Directive(...)
export class NgFor<T>{
	...


	static ngTemplateContext<T>(dir: NgFor<T>): NgForContext<T>;
}

function NgFor_Type<T>(ngForOf: T[]): NgFor<T>{...}

function typeCheckBlock(ctx, AppComponent){
	// NgFOr<User>
	let ngFor!: NgFor_Type<ctx.users>;

	// NgForContext<T>
	let ngForCtx = NgFor.ngTemplateContext(ngFor);

	// User
	let user = ngForctx.$implicit;

	...
}

```

